README-SERVICE.md, before:

This document describes the **Connector Service** flavor of the Couchbase Elasticsearch Connector,
which will be available as a Developer Preview on August 31st, 2018.

You may also be interested in the [Elasticsearch Plugin](README-PLUGIN.md) flavor
which is available now. 

## Pre-Release Disclaimer

This product has not yet been released. Features, requirements, and supported versions are subject to change.


## Connector Service Requirements

* Couchbase Server 5.0 or newer.
* Elasticsearch 5 or newer (6.x recommended).
* Java 8 or newer.

You might also want the [elasticsearch-head](https://github.com/mobz/elasticsearch-head) plugin for
Google Chrome so you can easily see the documents in Elasticsearch.

## Installation

Connector Service distributions are available from the [Releases](https://github.com/couchbaselabs/elasticsearch-transport-couchbase/releases) page.
Download the latest `couchbase-elasticsearch-connector-<version>.zip`. (Ignore the `elasticsearch-transport-couchbase` files; those are for the plugin flavor.) 

Unzip the archive. These instructions refer to the unzipped directory as `$CBES_HOME`.

Add `$CBES_HOME/bin` to your `PATH`.
 
Copy `$CBES_HOME/config/example-connector.toml` to
`$CBES_HOME/config/default-connector.toml`.

> The connector commands get their configuration from `$CBES_HOME/config/default-connector.toml` by default.
You can tell them to use a different config file with the `--config <file>` command line option.

Take a moment to browse the settings available in `default-connector.toml`. Make sure
the Couchbase and Elasticsearch credentials and hostnames match your environment.
Note that the passwords are stored separately in the `$CBES_HOME/secrets` directory.

If you're using Elasticsearch 5.x, replace all instances of the type name `_doc` with something that
doesn't have a leading underscore.

The sample config will replicate documents from the Couchbase `travel-sample` bucket. 
Go ahead and
[install the sample buckets](https://developer.couchbase.com/documentation/server/current/settings/install-sample-buckets.html)
now if you haven't already.

## Starting a connector process

Run this command:

    cbes

The connector should start copying documents from the `travel-sample` bucket into Elasticsearch.

## Monitoring a connector process

Metrics are exposed over HTTP:

    http://localhost:31415/metrics?pretty


## Stopping a connector process

A connector process will shut down gracefully in response to an interrupt signal
(ctrl-c, or `kill -s INT <pid>`).


## Connector process groups

Distributed connector processes can share the work of replicating a bucket.
Install the connector distribution on multiple machines.
Make sure the configuration is identical, except for the `memberNumber` config key
which must be unique within the group.


## Managing checkpoints

The connector periodically saves its replication state by writing metadata documents to the
Couchbase bucket. These documents have IDs starting with "`_connector:cbes:`".

Command line tools are provided to manage the replication checkpoint.

> WARNING: You must stop all connector processes before modifying the replication checkpoint.

#### Saving the current replication state

To create a backup of the current state:

    cbes-checkpoint-backup --output <checkpoint.json>

This will create a checkpoint document on the local filesystem. On Linux, to include a timestamp in the filename: 

    cbes-checkpoint-backup --output checkpoint-$(date -u +%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ).json

This command is safe to use while the connector is running,
and can be triggered from a cron job to create periodic backups. 


#### Reverting to a saved checkpoint

If you want to rewind the event stream and re-index documents starting from a saved checkpoint,
first stop all running connector processes in the connector group.
Then run:

    cbes-checkpoint-restore --input <checkpoint.json>

The next time you run the connector, it will resume from the checkpoint you just restored. 

#### Resetting the connector

If you want to discard all replication state and start streaming from the beginning,
first stop all of the connector processes, then run:

    cbes-checkpoint-clear
    
Or, if you want to reset the connector so it starts from the
current state of the bucket:

    cbes-checkpoint-clear --catch-up


# Building the connector from source

The connector distribution may be built from source with the command:
    
    ./gradlew build

The distribution archive will be generated under `build/distributions`.
During development, it might be more convenient to run:

    ./gradlew installDist
    
which creates `build/install/cbes` as a `$CBES_HOME` directory.    

### IntelliJ setup  
Because the project uses annotation processors, some [fiddly setup](INTELLIJ-SETUP.md) is required when importing the project into IntelliJ.

Commit message:

Loosen up the pre-release disclaimer language

README-SERVICE.md, after:

This document describes the **Connector Service** flavor of the Couchbase Elasticsearch Connector,
which will be available as a Developer Preview on August 31st, 2018.

You may also be interested in the [Elasticsearch Plugin](README-PLUGIN.md) flavor
which is available now. 

## Pre-Release Disclaimer

This software has not yet been released. Features, requirements, documentation,
and supported versions may change before release.


## Connector Service Requirements

* Couchbase Server 5.0 or newer.
* Elasticsearch 5 or newer (6.x recommended).
* Java 8 or newer.

You might also want the [elasticsearch-head](https://github.com/mobz/elasticsearch-head) plugin for
Google Chrome so you can easily see the documents in Elasticsearch.

## Installation

Connector Service distributions are available from the [Releases](https://github.com/couchbaselabs/elasticsearch-transport-couchbase/releases) page.
Download the latest `couchbase-elasticsearch-connector-<version>.zip`. (Ignore the `elasticsearch-transport-couchbase` files; those are for the plugin flavor.) 

Unzip the archive. These instructions refer to the unzipped directory as `$CBES_HOME`.

Add `$CBES_HOME/bin` to your `PATH`.
 
Copy `$CBES_HOME/config/example-connector.toml` to
`$CBES_HOME/config/default-connector.toml`.

> The connector commands get their configuration from `$CBES_HOME/config/default-connector.toml` by default.
You can tell them to use a different config file with the `--config <file>` command line option.

Take a moment to browse the settings available in `default-connector.toml`. Make sure
the Couchbase and Elasticsearch credentials and hostnames match your environment.
Note that the passwords are stored separately in the `$CBES_HOME/secrets` directory.

If you're using Elasticsearch 5.x, replace all instances of the type name `_doc` with something that
doesn't have a leading underscore.

The sample config will replicate documents from the Couchbase `travel-sample` bucket. 
Go ahead and
[install the sample buckets](https://developer.couchbase.com/documentation/server/current/settings/install-sample-buckets.html)
now if you haven't already.

## Starting a connector process

Run this command:

    cbes

The connector should start copying documents from the `travel-sample` bucket into Elasticsearch.

## Monitoring a connector process

Metrics are exposed over HTTP:

    http://localhost:31415/metrics?pretty


## Stopping a connector process

A connector process will shut down gracefully in response to an interrupt signal
(ctrl-c, or `kill -s INT <pid>`).


## Connector process groups

Distributed connector processes can share the work of replicating a bucket.
Install the connector distribution on multiple machines.
Make sure the configuration is identical, except for the `memberNumber` config key
which must be unique within the group.


## Managing checkpoints

The connector periodically saves its replication state by writing metadata documents to the
Couchbase bucket. These documents have IDs starting with "`_connector:cbes:`".

Command line tools are provided to manage the replication checkpoint.

> WARNING: You must stop all connector processes before modifying the replication checkpoint.

#### Saving the current replication state

To create a backup of the current state:

    cbes-checkpoint-backup --output <checkpoint.json>

This will create a checkpoint document on the local filesystem. On Linux, to include a timestamp in the filename: 

    cbes-checkpoint-backup --output checkpoint-$(date -u +%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ).json

This command is safe to use while the connector is running,
and can be triggered from a cron job to create periodic backups. 


#### Reverting to a saved checkpoint

If you want to rewind the event stream and re-index documents starting from a saved checkpoint,
first stop all running connector processes in the connector group.
Then run:

    cbes-checkpoint-restore --input <checkpoint.json>

The next time you run the connector, it will resume from the checkpoint you just restored. 

#### Resetting the connector

If you want to discard all replication state and start streaming from the beginning,
first stop all of the connector processes, then run:

    cbes-checkpoint-clear
    
Or, if you want to reset the connector so it starts from the
current state of the bucket:

    cbes-checkpoint-clear --catch-up


# Building the connector from source

The connector distribution may be built from source with the command:
    
    ./gradlew build

The distribution archive will be generated under `build/distributions`.
During development, it might be more convenient to run:

    ./gradlew installDist
    
which creates `build/install/cbes` as a `$CBES_HOME` directory.    

### IntelliJ setup  
Because the project uses annotation processors, some [fiddly setup](INTELLIJ-SETUP.md) is required when importing the project into IntelliJ.
