docs/modules/ROOT/pages/autonomous-operations.adoc, before:

= Autonomous Operations

[abstract]
Deploy the connector in AO mode for centralized management and resilient response to node failures and network partitions.

In Autonomous Operations (AO) mode the connector workers communicate with each other using a coordination service.
If the machine hosting a worker fails, that worker is automatically removed from the group and the workload is redistributed among remaining workers.

Group configuration is stored in a central location so the entire group can be easily reconfigured on-the-fly.
Command line tools let you pause and resume all workers at once.
In this mode you can modify replication checkpoints without having to manually stop and restart all workers.

== Coordination with Consul

The coordination service used by the connector is https://www.consul.io[HashiCorp Consul].

Installing and managing a production Consul cluster is beyond the scope of this guide, but we'll show how to quickly and easily set up a Consul server in development mode.

== AO Quickstart Guide

[abstract]
For demonstration purposes, this guide shows how to run the Consul agent & server and multiple connector workers on the same physical machine.

=== Pre-requisites

* Please review the xref:getting-started.adoc[Getting Started] documentation for basic connector configuration and operation.
Make sure you are successful with a single worker before proceeding.

* You'll need a Consul executable for your platform.
Visit the https://www.consul.io[Consul web site] and navigate to the download page.
Download Consul 1.4.4 (other versions may work, but this is the one we currently test and support).
Install the Consul binary by moving it to a directory in your `PATH`.

=== Start the Consul Server

Run this command to start a single-node Consul cluster in development mode:

[source,console]
----
$ consul agent -dev
----

Visit the Consul web interface at http://localhost:8500 to view the state of the cluster and verify the node is healthy.

=== Configure the Connector Group

Make a copy of the connector configuration file you customized for the xref:getting-started.adoc[Getting Started] guide.
Let's call the new config file `ao-quickstart-config.toml`.

Our new connector group needs a name.
Edit the `[group]` section so it looks like this:

[source,toml]
----
[group]
  name = 'my-ao-group' <1>
----
<1> The name can be anything you want, but this is the value assumed by the rest of this guide.

Next, make sure there won't be any port conflicts when running multiple workers on the same machine.
Search for the `[metrics]` section and set the `httpPort` property to `-1` to disable the embedded HTTP server.

NOTE: The values in the `[group.static]` section are ignored when running in AO mode, but the section must still be present.

Save the changes.
Now let's upload the configuration to Consul with this command:

[source,console]
----
$ cbes-consul configure --input=ao-quickstart-config.toml
----

The config file should now be present in Consul's Key/Value store which you can inspect using the http://localhost:8500[web interface].

NOTE: One limitation of running Consul in development mode is that data is not persisted between runs.
You'll need to re-run the connector configuration command after every Consul restart.

=== Run Connector Workers

Use this command to start a connector worker using the configuration defined in Consul:

[source,console]
----
$ cbes-consul run --group=my-ao-group
----

Now let's start a second worker.
Open a new terminal window and run this command:

[source,console]
----
$ cbes-consul run --group=my-ao-group --service-id=second <1>
----
<1> Because both workers are talking to the same Consul agent and using the same group name, we need to assign the second worker an explicit service ID.

TIP: Service IDs must be unique among all workers using the same Consul agent.
If you don't specify a service ID it defaults to the name of the group.

One of the connectors in the group was elected the leader (probably the first one, since it started first).
The leader watches for group membership changes and rebalances the workload accordingly.

Add a third worker to the group and watch the output of the connectors to see how they respond.
Pay particular attention to the leader's output, since it will be the one telling the others what to do.

Now stop the leader by sending it an interrupt signal (type `control-c` in its terminal window).
This forces a leader election, which one of the remaining workers wins.

If you like, edit the `ao-quickstart-config.toml` file and modify one of the properties in the `[elasticsearch.bulkRequestLimits]` section.
Re-run the `cbes-consul configure` command from earlier to see the new configuration take effect immediately.

=== Connector Management Commands

Run `cbes-consul` without any arguments to see a list of sub-commands.
Here are some highlights:

.List the names of all configured connector groups
[source,console]
----
$ cbes-consul groups
----

.Restart the replication stream (reindex all documents)
[source,console]
----
$ cbes-consul checkpoint-clear --group=my-ao-group
----

.Ignore changes from before the current time
[source,console]
----
$ cbes-consul checkpoint-catch-up --group=my-ao-group
----

.Save a snapshot of the replication checkpoint to the local filesystem
[source,console]
----
$ cbes-consul checkpoint-backup --group=my-ao-group --output=<checkpoint.json>
----

.Restore the checkpoint from a snapshot file
[source,console]
----
$ cbes-consul checkpoint-restore --group=my-ao-group --input=<checkpoint.json>
----

.Pause the connector
[source,console]
----
$ cbes-consul pause --group=my-ao-group
----

.Get back to work!
[source,console]
----
$ cbes-consul resume --group=my-ao-group
----

== Migrating to Autonomous Operations

Replication checkpoint documents created in AO mode are 100% compatible with checkpoints created in other modes.
If you're migrating to AO mode, use the same group name and your replication checkpoint will be preserved.

Just make sure to stop all non-AO workers for a group before running the AO workers.

== Tips & Tricks

* All of the `cbes-consul checkpoint-\*` commands may be performed at any time, even when workers are running.
Just be careful not confuse them with the `cbes-checkpoint-*` commands, which should only be used when all workers in the group are stopped.
* By default all of the CLI commands talk to Consul via the local agent.
If there's no local Consul agent, you can use a remote agent by passing `--consul-agent=<host:port>` (where `port` is usually 8500).
* Configuration is not _completely_ centralized.
Sensitive properties like passwords must be still be configured on each worker's filesystem.

== From Development to Production

In a production environment, the recommended topology is to spread the connector workers over several machines,
and to run the Consul agent on each machine that hosts a worker.

You'll also need at least one Consul agent running in server mode; the recommended number of servers is 3 or 5.

Please see the Consul documentation for detailed information about administering a production Consul cluster.

Commit message:

Bump supported Consul version to 1.5.3
Change-Id: I605226675a096ef159f786d4fb8e7a0f440681e8
Reviewed-on: http://review.couchbase.org/113728
Tested-by: Build Bot <build@couchbase.com>
Reviewed-by: David Nault <david.nault@couchbase.com>

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/autonomous-operations.adoc, after:

= Autonomous Operations

[abstract]
Deploy the connector in AO mode for centralized management and resilient response to node failures and network partitions.

In Autonomous Operations (AO) mode the connector workers communicate with each other using a coordination service.
If the machine hosting a worker fails, that worker is automatically removed from the group and the workload is redistributed among remaining workers.

Group configuration is stored in a central location so the entire group can be easily reconfigured on-the-fly.
Command line tools let you pause and resume all workers at once.
In this mode you can modify replication checkpoints without having to manually stop and restart all workers.

== Coordination with Consul

The coordination service used by the connector is https://www.consul.io[HashiCorp Consul].

Installing and managing a production Consul cluster is beyond the scope of this guide, but we'll show how to quickly and easily set up a Consul server in development mode.

== AO Quickstart Guide

[abstract]
For demonstration purposes, this guide shows how to run the Consul agent & server and multiple connector workers on the same physical machine.

=== Pre-requisites

* Please review the xref:getting-started.adoc[Getting Started] documentation for basic connector configuration and operation.
Make sure you are successful with a single worker before proceeding.

* You'll need a Consul executable for your platform.
Visit the https://www.consul.io[Consul web site] and navigate to the download page.
Download xref:compatibility.adoc[a compatible version of Consul] (other versions may work, but these are the ones we currently test and support).
Install the Consul binary by moving it to a directory in your `PATH`.

=== Start the Consul Server

Run this command to start a single-node Consul cluster in development mode:

[source,console]
----
$ consul agent -dev
----

Visit the Consul web interface at http://localhost:8500 to view the state of the cluster and verify the node is healthy.

=== Configure the Connector Group

Make a copy of the connector configuration file you customized for the xref:getting-started.adoc[Getting Started] guide.
Let's call the new config file `ao-quickstart-config.toml`.

Our new connector group needs a name.
Edit the `[group]` section so it looks like this:

[source,toml]
----
[group]
  name = 'my-ao-group' <1>
----
<1> The name can be anything you want, but this is the value assumed by the rest of this guide.

Next, make sure there won't be any port conflicts when running multiple workers on the same machine.
Search for the `[metrics]` section and set the `httpPort` property to `-1` to disable the embedded HTTP server.

NOTE: The values in the `[group.static]` section are ignored when running in AO mode, but the section must still be present.

Save the changes.
Now let's upload the configuration to Consul with this command:

[source,console]
----
$ cbes-consul configure --input=ao-quickstart-config.toml
----

The config file should now be present in Consul's Key/Value store which you can inspect using the http://localhost:8500[web interface].

NOTE: One limitation of running Consul in development mode is that data is not persisted between runs.
You'll need to re-run the connector configuration command after every Consul restart.

=== Run Connector Workers

Use this command to start a connector worker using the configuration defined in Consul:

[source,console]
----
$ cbes-consul run --group=my-ao-group
----

Now let's start a second worker.
Open a new terminal window and run this command:

[source,console]
----
$ cbes-consul run --group=my-ao-group --service-id=second <1>
----
<1> Because both workers are talking to the same Consul agent and using the same group name, we need to assign the second worker an explicit service ID.

TIP: Service IDs must be unique among all workers using the same Consul agent.
If you don't specify a service ID it defaults to the name of the group.

One of the connectors in the group was elected the leader (probably the first one, since it started first).
The leader watches for group membership changes and rebalances the workload accordingly.

Add a third worker to the group and watch the output of the connectors to see how they respond.
Pay particular attention to the leader's output, since it will be the one telling the others what to do.

Now stop the leader by sending it an interrupt signal (type `control-c` in its terminal window).
This forces a leader election, which one of the remaining workers wins.

If you like, edit the `ao-quickstart-config.toml` file and modify one of the properties in the `[elasticsearch.bulkRequestLimits]` section.
Re-run the `cbes-consul configure` command from earlier to see the new configuration take effect immediately.

=== Connector Management Commands

Run `cbes-consul` without any arguments to see a list of sub-commands.
Here are some highlights:

.List the names of all configured connector groups
[source,console]
----
$ cbes-consul groups
----

.Restart the replication stream (reindex all documents)
[source,console]
----
$ cbes-consul checkpoint-clear --group=my-ao-group
----

.Ignore changes from before the current time
[source,console]
----
$ cbes-consul checkpoint-catch-up --group=my-ao-group
----

.Save a snapshot of the replication checkpoint to the local filesystem
[source,console]
----
$ cbes-consul checkpoint-backup --group=my-ao-group --output=<checkpoint.json>
----

.Restore the checkpoint from a snapshot file
[source,console]
----
$ cbes-consul checkpoint-restore --group=my-ao-group --input=<checkpoint.json>
----

.Pause the connector
[source,console]
----
$ cbes-consul pause --group=my-ao-group
----

.Get back to work!
[source,console]
----
$ cbes-consul resume --group=my-ao-group
----

== Migrating to Autonomous Operations

Replication checkpoint documents created in AO mode are 100% compatible with checkpoints created in other modes.
If you're migrating to AO mode, use the same group name and your replication checkpoint will be preserved.

Just make sure to stop all non-AO workers for a group before running the AO workers.

== Tips & Tricks

* All of the `cbes-consul checkpoint-\*` commands may be performed at any time, even when workers are running.
Just be careful not confuse them with the `cbes-checkpoint-*` commands, which should only be used when all workers in the group are stopped.
* By default all of the CLI commands talk to Consul via the local agent.
If there's no local Consul agent, you can use a remote agent by passing `--consul-agent=<host:port>` (where `port` is usually 8500).
* Configuration is not _completely_ centralized.
Sensitive properties like passwords must be still be configured on each worker's filesystem.

== From Development to Production

In a production environment, the recommended topology is to spread the connector workers over several machines,
and to run the Consul agent on each machine that hosts a worker.

You'll also need at least one Consul agent running in server mode; the recommended number of servers is 3 or 5.

Please see the Consul documentation for detailed information about administering a production Consul cluster.
