docs/modules/ROOT/pages/compatibility.adoc, before:

= Compatibility

✔ *Supported*: This combination is tested and supported.

✖ *Unsupported*: This combination is not supported.

Versions not listed on this page may work but are untested and unsupported.


== Elasticsearch

Elasticsearch version support is informed by https://www.elastic.co/support/eol[Elastic product end of life dates].

[%autowidth,cols="^,4*^"]
|===
 |             4+h| Connector
h| Elasticsearch↓ | 4.1 | 4.2.0 - 4.2.1 | 4.2.2 - 4.2.7 | 4.2.8+
 | 7.8 - 7.11     | ✖   | ✖             | ✖             | ✔
 | 7.6 - 7.7      | ✖   | ✖             | ✔             | ✔
 | 7.4 - 7.5      | ✖   | ✔             | ✔             | ✔
 | 6.8.14         | ✔   | ✔             | ✔             | ✔
 | 5.6.16         | ✔   | ✔             | ✔             | ✔
|===


== Amazon Elasticsearch Service

Direct connection to Amazon Elasticsearch Service instances is supported by connector versions 4.2 and later.

== Couchbase Cloud

Connector versions 4.2.4 and later are compatible with Couchbase Cloud.

== Couchbase Server

[%autowidth,cols="^,1*^"]
|===
 |           h| Connector
h| Couchbase↓ | 4.1 - 4.2
 | 6.6        | ✔
 | 6.5        | ✔
 | 6.0        | ✔
 | 5.5        | ✔
 | 5.1        | ✔
 | 5.0        | ✔
 | < 5.0      | ✖
|===


== Java

[%autowidth,cols="^,1*^"]
|===
 |                 1+h| Connector
h| Java↓            | 4.1 - 4.2
 | AdoptOpenJDK 11  | ✔
 | AdoptOpenJDK 8   | ✔
 | Oracle JDK 8     | ✔
|===


== Consul

Only required for Autonomous Operations mode.

[%autowidth,cols="^,2*^"]
|===
 |         2+h| Connector
h| Consul↓    | 4.1 - 4.2.6  | 4.2.7+
 | 1.5.3      | ✔            | ✔
 | 1.9.1      | ✖            | ✔
|===

Commit message:

Update docs for version 4.3
Modifications
-------------
Remove deprecated "cbes.backfill*" metrics

Promote uncommitted features to committed

Change-Id: I4090d42fe5365c7d8f2b27f7280a4ef677b5130e
Reviewed-on: http://review.couchbase.org/c/couchbase-elasticsearch-connector/+/156822
Tested-by: Build Bot <build@couchbase.com>
Reviewed-by: David Nault <david.nault@couchbase.com>

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/compatibility.adoc, after:

= Compatibility

.Legend
* ✖ *Unsupported*: This combination is not tested, and is not within the scope of technical support if you have purchased a support agreement.

* ◎ *Compatible*: This combination has been tested previously, and should be compatible.
This combination is not recommended by our technical support organization.
It is best to upgrade to a supported version.

* ✔ *Supported*: This combination is subject to ongoing quality assurance, and is fully supported by our technical support organization.

== Elasticsearch

Elasticsearch version support is informed by https://www.elastic.co/support/eol[Elastic product end of life dates].

[%autowidth,cols="^,5*^"]
|===
 |             5+h| Connector
h| Elasticsearch↓ | 4.1 | 4.2.0 - 4.2.1 | 4.2.2 - 4.2.7 | 4.2.8+ | 4.3
 | 7.12 - 7.13    | ✖   | ✖             | ✖             | ✖      | ✔
 | 7.8 - 7.11     | ✖   | ✖             | ✖             | ✔      | ✔
 | 7.6 - 7.7      | ✖   | ✖             | ✔             | ✔      | ✔
 | 7.4 - 7.5      | ✖   | ✔             | ✔             | ✔      | ✔
 | 6.8.14         | ✔   | ✔             | ✔             | ✔      | ✔
 | 5.6.16         | ✔   | ✔             | ✔             | ✔      | ✔
|===

== Amazon Elasticsearch Service

Direct connection to Amazon Elasticsearch Service instances is supported by connector versions 4.2 and later.

== Couchbase Cloud

Connector versions 4.2.4 and later are compatible with Couchbase Cloud.

== Couchbase Server

[%autowidth,cols="^,2*^"]
|===
 |           2+h| Connector
h| Couchbase↓ | 4.1 - 4.2 | 4.3
 | 7.x        | ◎ *       | ✔
 | 6.x        | ✔         | ✔
 | 5.x        | ✔         | ◎
 | < 5.0      | ✖         | ✖
|===
+++*+++ If you've been using an earlier version of Couchbase, you can upgrade to Couchbase 7 and everything will continue working as before.
To take advantage of the Scopes and Collections introduced in Couchbase 7, please upgrade the connector to version 4.3.

== Java

[%autowidth,cols="^,1*^"]
|===
 |                 1+h| Connector
h| Java↓            | 4.1 - 4.3
 | AdoptOpenJDK 11  | ✔
 | AdoptOpenJDK 8   | ✔
 | Oracle JDK 8     | ✔
|===


== Consul

Only required for Autonomous Operations mode.

[%autowidth,cols="^,2*^"]
|===
 |         2+h| Connector
h| Consul↓    | 4.1 - 4.2.6  | 4.2.7+
 | 1.5.3      | ✔            | ✔
 | 1.9.1      | ✖            | ✔
|===
