examples/kubernetes/README.adoc, before:

= Running the Couchbase Elasticsearch Connector in Kubernetes

== Prerequisites

- A Kubernetes cluster
- A Docker image for the connector accessible to Kubernetes

== Steps

1. Update `elasticsearch-connector-configuration.yaml` with your configuration. To support SSL/TLS,
   add `truststore.jks` to the ConfigMap as a binary file with the certificates to be trusted.
2. Update `elasticsearch-connector.yaml` with your image name and tag.
3. `kubectl apply -f .`

== Scaling

A precise number of pods must be run for this connector, matching CBES_TOTALMEMBERS. Each pod should have a different CBES_MEMBERNUMBER
from 1 to CBES_TOTALMEMBERS. Running more than one pod with the same CBES_MEMBERNUMBER should never happen. If replacing a pod, be sure
the old pod is deleted before the new one is deployed.

Each pod gets Couchbase vBuckets assigned to it to stream. This means that multiple pods share the load, but they are not providing redundancy.
If any one pod is not running, then new mutations in the vBuckets the pod is responsible for will not be streamed.

If changing CBES_TOTALMEMBERS, be sure to delete all pods first before changing, then redeploy all pods with the new value.

Commit message:

Update Kubernetes example to use StatefulSet
Motivation
----------
A StatefulSet provides a simpler way to control the number of pods
being used to stream data for a particular CBES group, with less room
for operator error.

Modifications
-------------
Update the example configuration to pull the group name from an
environment variable.

Update the example deployment from 2 pods to a StatefulSet with 2
replicas. Pull CBES_GROUP from the labels on the pod, and
CBES_MEMBERNUMBER at runtime from the pod name.

Results
-------
The number of pods used to stream data can be changed by simply
changing two values, the number of replicas and CBES_TOTALMEMBERS
(those these values must match).

Change-Id: Ica4add52eae63ac254b9e1e8f87ccc296f3db31c
Reviewed-on: http://review.couchbase.org/c/couchbase-elasticsearch-connector/+/132485
Tested-by: Build Bot <build@couchbase.com>
Reviewed-by: David Nault <david.nault@couchbase.com>

examples/kubernetes/README.adoc, after:

= Running the Couchbase Elasticsearch Connector in Kubernetes

== Prerequisites

- A Kubernetes cluster
- A Docker image for the connector accessible to Kubernetes

== Steps

1. Update `elasticsearch-connector-configuration.yaml` with your configuration. To support SSL/TLS,
   add `truststore.jks` to the ConfigMap as a binary file with the certificates to be trusted.
2. Update `elasticsearch-connector.yaml` with your image name and tag.
3. `kubectl apply -f .`

== Group Name

Any given stream to Elasticsearch should have a unique group name. This group name is used to persist state
information so that the stream may resume gracefully. To change the group name, update the `cbes-group` labels
throughout `elasticsearch-connector.yaml`. This name must be changed at each location it appears.

== Scaling

A precise number of pods must be run for this connector, matching `CBES_TOTALMEMBERS`. Each pod should have a different `CBES_MEMBERNUMBER`
from 1 to `CBES_TOTALMEMBERS`. Running more than one pod with the same `CBES_MEMBERNUMBER` should never happen. This is handled automatically
by the StatefulSet, so long as the `replica` value for the StatefulSet always matches the `CBES_TOTALMEMBERS` value in the environment
variables for the Pod template.

Each pod gets Couchbase vBuckets assigned to it to stream. This means that multiple pods share the load, but they are not providing redundancy.
If any one pod is not running, then new mutations in the vBuckets the pod is responsible for will not be streamed.
